# Snapchat-Political-Ads-Linear-Regression
This repository includes simple and multiple linear regression analyses for Snapchat political ad data. 
# Predicting Impressions from Advertising Expenditures and Advertisement Duration of Political Ads on Snapchat # 
## Background ## 
Throughout the past several years, political campaigns have spent astronomical sums of money on advertising and social media outreach. Most notably, Johns Hopkins University Alum and Former New York City Mayor, Michael Bloomberg, [spent $1 billion on his campaign, of which 70% reportedly went towards advertising.](https://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/how-social-media-is-shaping-political-campaigns/) Former President Donald Trump spent around [$107 million on Facebook ads](https://abc7.com/presidential-race-campaign-spending-trump-political-ads-biden/7452228/) alone during the 2020 Presidential race, while President Joe Biden spent around [$94 million on Facebook ads](https://abc7.com/presidential-race-campaign-spending-trump-political-ads-biden/7452228/) in the same time frame. Although Facebook and Google have consistently dominated political advertising, rising social media platforms, like Snapchat, [offer access to the ‘Gen Z’ population and a larger audience of young voters.](https://deltalab.research.wesleyan.edu/2020/10/28/presidential-advertising-on-snapchat/) President Biden has already spent around [$3 million on Snapchat advertising](https://deltalab.research.wesleyan.edu/2020/10/28/presidential-advertising-on-snapchat/), in addition to fellow Democratic figures like Former NYC Mayor Bloomberg and Senator Elizabeth Warren. Given these figures, and the rising popularity of social media, we seek to determine whether we can predict the number of impressions (views) using advertising expenditures and advertisement duration in the year 2021 from Snapchat’s public Political Ads data. 
## Business Question ##
Can we predict the number of impressions (views) for an advertisement on Snapchat based on advertising expenditures and advertisment duration of political advertisements on Snapchat during the year 2021? 
## Data Source ##
[Snapchat Political Ads Data](https://www.snap.com/en-US/political-ads)
Snapchat publishes their political advertising data for each year and includes comprehensive information for each political advertisement on their platform. The data file includes basic information for each advertisement transaction such as a unique ID, the currency of the transaction, the cost of the advertisement, the start and end dates for the advertisement, the organization being advertised, and the paying advertiser. The file also includes demographic information such as age brackets, gender, geographic location, target radius, and advertising language. All transactions do not include comprehensive demographic information however every transaction does include the basic information. For the purposes of this analysis, advertisements with no specified end-date (on-going advertisements) were given end-dates of March 2, 2021 because the data was downloaded on March 2, 2021 and the analysis was performed on data that was present at this time. The data was kept in the analysis because the on-going advertisement data reflected the amount spent and the impressions generated thus far, and increased the sample size of the analysis.  
## Data Visualizations ## 
